=crontab=
2012-08-30 20 43 51

{{{
去除邮件通知的办法
如果真的不需要通知，在crontab里命令行后面弄一句「> /dev/null 2>&1」也行。
}}}

== option ==
- -e        edit crontab config file of current user
- -l        list
- -u        user name
- -r        remove all crontab job

== crontab config ==
=== format ===
`m h dom(day of month) mon(month) dow(day of week) command`

system level crontab will have one more field *user*, before `command` field.

dow, from Sunday as 0, Mon as 1, ...

- *         every
- /         interval of job
*/5, every 5 minutes
- -         range
- ,         discrete number

=== locatiton ===
_/etc/crontab_ system crontab config

_/var/spool/cron_

== crontab service ==
make sure crontab service running

== issuse ==
=== newline ===
every entry in crontab end in a *newline* char.

=== PATH ===
crontab working in non-login shell, so not inculude default profile for
interactive.

Maybe need add _PATH_ in crontab config file.

conrtab working directory is your home dir, so maybe need add "cd [path] &&
exec", if your EXEC need working directory.

crontab use default non-login shell, so maybe PATH not same

add executable program to default PATH, or modification of PATH for crontab

=== % ===
Be VERY careful when using the percent (%) sign in your command. Unless they
are escaped \% they are converted into newlines and everything after the first
non-escaped % is passed to your command on stdin.

=== MAILTO ===
add *MAILTO*, the cron will try send mail with stdout of command

=== run-parts ===
run all executable file in dir

= fcron =
support machine which only work occasionnally but not 7x24.

- time interval
- depend on system uptime
- time scope as machine only work in one time between it
- system load trigger
