= gerrit =

== command in server ==
=== set-reviewer ===
Add or remove reviewers on a change.

`'gerrit set-reviewers' [--project <PROJECT>] [--add <REVIEWER> ..] [--remove <REVIEWER>..] [--] {COMMIT | CHANGE-ID}…`

- --project / -p
- --add / -a
- --remove / -r
add or remove could use multiple-times to add or remove multitiple reviewers.

* username(mail)
* groupname

* Change-Id
* CL-number
* SHA of commit

NOTE:
as set-reviewers will smart match Change-Id, CL-number, SHA of commit.

so maybe match multiple change, even though CL-No is the KEY(only once).

use Change-Id's better

=== query ===
* --current-patch-set
* --patch-set               all patch sets
* --format [TEXT|JSON]

=== search operators ===
* age:AGE
* change:ID
* owner:USER
* ...

==== predicator ====
* is:open
* is:closed

Ref: [[https://review.openstack.org/Documentation/user-search.html]]

=== review ===
Verify, approve and/or submit a patch set from the command line.

- --project / -p
- --branch / -b
- --message / -m
two levels of quoting is required, one for the local shell, and another for
the argument parser inside the Gerrit server
- --json / -j
- --notify / -n
    * NONE
    * OWNER
    * OWNER_REVIEWERS
    * ALL (+wacher, +starter)
- --abondan
- --restore
- --rebase
- --submit / -s
- --publish
- --delete
- --code-review
- --verified
- --label

=== stream-events ===
gerrit could use stream-events command to get internal event.

and return a JSON line for every event.

ref:[[https://review.gerrithub.io/Documentation/cmd-stream-events.html|gerrit stream event]]

`ssh -p 29418 review.example.com gerrit stream-events`

cannot setting filter this command, must filter yourself.

=== gerrit plguin ===
- ls
- install / add
- enable
- reload
- remove / rm
- test-submit rule
== REST-API ==
NOTE:
we even could use JSON format, and REST-API to create draft to review.
== problem ==
=== squash commit first ===
repush commit to gerrit server again without any changes, will cause this problem.

need do some changes. better update commit message.

== submit rule ==
=== prolog ===
before 2.5 version, we can use prolog as embeded language to self-define
submit rule.

`refs/meta/config:config` branch, edit *rule.pl*.

use `test-submit rule` to verify it.

=== gerrit plugin ===
after that version, we also could use gerrit plugin for this.

== plugin ==
=== reviewer ===
auto add reviewer plugin

== client tool ==
=== git-review ===
- -s                setup
- (default)         submit to review
- -t                topic
- branch            push to other branch(not default)
- -D                draft
- -d [CLNo]         download a CL(add more dependency) and switch to corrsponding branch
- -x                cherry-pick

= issues =
== no such change ==
when have no right, it just get fatal error, which declare "no such change"

switch another account, and retry
