= mpeg2 =
- VLC
- VLD (Variable Length Decoding)

== quantization ==

divide quantization matrix

== temporal prediction ==
don't do motion estimation at chrominance plane, just assume it's be same with
lunminance plane.

fully capable of playback MPEG-1 video streams.

It have 1995, 2000, 2013, three version.

layer::
- sequence
- GOP
- pciture
- slice
- macroblock, 16x16
- block, 8x8

== mpeg2 bitstream syntax ==

=== header ===

- start code 0x000001

- Table 6-1

| start code values | name      |
| 0x00              | picture   |
| 0x01 .. 0xAF      | slice     |
| 0xB3              | sequence  |
| 0xB2              | user data |
| 0xB9 .. 0xff      | system    |

=== sequence header ===

- 6.2.2.1
| byte4..byte5[7..4]    | horizontal size |
| byte5[3..0]..byte6    | vertical size   |
| byte7[7..4]           | aspect ratio    |
| byte7[3..0]           | frame rate      |
| byte8 .. byte10[7..6] | bit rate        |

| code | aspect ratio | frame rate |
| 0    | forbidden    | forbidden  |
| 1    | 1:1          | 24000/1001 |
| 2    | 4:3          | 24         |
| 3    | 16:9         | 25         |
| 4    | 2.21:1       | 30000/1001 |
| 5    | -            | 30         |
| 6    | -            | 50         |
| 7    | -            | 60000/1001 |
| 8    | -            | 60         |

Technical (coding) information is contained in the MPEG-2 bitstream in
macroblock headers, slice headers, picture headers, Group of Picture (GOP)
headers, and sequence headers. The sequence header provides data needed
before decoding can begin, such as the size of the picture and the frame
rate. Because it is so important, the sequence header is usually repeated
as often as twice a second.

ref: http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/formats/fdd/fdd000028.shtml
=== picture header ===

| byte4 .. byte5[7,6]        | tempral sequence               |
| byte5[5..3]                | frame type, 1=I, 2=P, 3=B, 4=D |
| byte5[2..0] .. byte7[7..3] | VBV delay                      |

== ref ==
- [x] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H.262/MPEG-2_Part_2#cite_note-mpeg-2-2013-2
- [x] http://dvd.sourceforge.net/dvdinfo/mpeghdrs.html

= Tming model =
== PTS ==

PTS or DTS is entered in the bitstream at intervals not exceeding 700ms.

ATSC further constrains PTS or PTS to be inserted at the beginning of eash
coded picture.

PTS is time stamped with STC(System Timc Clock) values.

- called PCR(Program Clock Reference) if stamp is at transport packet level.(in TS)
    - PCR time stamps are required to occur at maximum 100ms intervals.
- called SCR(System Clock Reference) if stamp is at PES level. (in PS)
    - SRC are required to occur at maximum 700ms intervals.
