= pthread库说明 =
mtime: 2013-03-02 15:41:47 
----

== functions ==
=== create ===
{{{
int pthread_create(pthread_t *thread, const pthread_attr_t *attr, void
        *(*start_route) (void *), void *arg);
}}}
start pthread as start_route, with arg.
=== join ===
join with a terminated thread

- if that thread has already terminated, return immediately.
- else, blocking wait until pthread stop

=== cancel ===
call `setcancelstate` first, send cancel state if pthread enable cancel state.

after that, we can `join` it, return with `PTHREAD_CANCELD` retval

pthread_cancel(pthread_t thread_id)

可以从外部呼叫令线程取消.具体线程可以根据收到cancel信号,自行决定行为.

=== test_cancel ===
pthread_testcancel( NULL)

线程内部检测cancel信号的点,如果这个时侯收到cancel信号,则停止,退出线程

ref:http://blog.chinaunix.net/uid-26548237-id-3197974.html

=== timedjoin_np ===
join with TIMEOUT value

=== detach ===
If not need retval, `detach` it.
Then system will auto clean up it, after it terminated.

=== exit ===
terminate calling thread

== Pthreads Impl internals ==
For user, `pthreads` only need a few bytes, `pthread_t` and `retval`, However,
OS will store massive information for threads.

- thread ID, thread attributes, start routine, argument and return value
- thread scheduling policy and priority.
- signal mask, signal stack
- flag for cancellation, clean up buffers.
- errno...

All these data, call `Thread Control Block`, `TCB`.

In general, allocate the thread stack and `TCB` in one feel swoop, and place
`TCB` at the beginning of stack.

{{{
1. By the way, this is a common skill for storing extra meta information in
header.
For example: malloced buffer.

2. We can see `thread` for OS is very hevavy.
So a lot of light-weight "thread", "chanel", "actor" were implemented by
developer.
}}}

== uninitialize problem ==
In    the     current     implementation     of     threads,
pthread_mutex_lock(),  pthread_mutex_unlock(), mutex_lock(),
mutex_unlock(), pthread_mutex_trylock(), and mutex_trylock()
do *NOT* validate the mutex type.  Therefore, an uninitialized
mutex or a mutex with an invalid type does not return   EIN-
VAL.  Interfaces  for  mutexes  with  an  invalid  type have
unspecified behavior.

Uninitialized mutexes that are allocated locally may contain
junk  data.  Such  mutexes  need  to  be  initialized  using
pthread_mutex_init() or  mutex_init().
----

== 线程个数的问题 ==
线程的个数往往会有很多地方有限制.比如系统中的配置信息等等.

例如:/usr/include/bits/local_lim.h 中,对于linux_thread限制为1024个.

----

在linux平台上可以创建381个线程.之后创建线程返回错误EAGAIN.

因为32位进程用户空间是3G大小,也就是3072M.默认配置线程的栈空间为8M.这样就是384个.代码段和数据段一般还需要占有一定空间.向下为383个.

减去主线程,因此为381个.

但是在linux上,系统还有一个管理线程.这样就是381个.
----
突破内存的限制,可以有两种方法:

ulimit -s 1024,减少默认栈的大小(这个只对当前shell进程,以及其子进程作用,其他shell下是没有用的)

pthread_create时候,时候pthread_attr_getstacksize设置一个较小的栈大小.

ref:http://www.cppblog.com/fwxjj/archive/2011/10/12/158108.html
