= shell 工具列表 =
=== sort ===
* -f, --ignore-case
* -n, --numberic-sort       sort it as number
* -h, --human-numeric-sort  sort human-readable format as number
* -r, --reverse             reverse the result of comparisons
* -k, --key=POS1[,POS2]     start a key at POS1...

=== find ===

find $HOME -name "*.pdf"

find / -size +1024c

find / -size -1024c

find / -size +1024c -and -size -10240c

寻找大于特定文件大小的文件

find . -type f -size + 100000k

- -mount 不跨越文件的挂载点进行查找,在某些情况下,例如不希望检查挂载路径时非常方便

=== fdupes ===
find duplicate files

based on size first, then md5sum
=== tree ===

tree -f | grep ABC

=== locate ===

locate ABC

updatedb

== filesystem ==
=== readlink/readpath ===
get softlink real directory

==== get current script fullname ====
fn="$(readlink --canonicalize "$0")"

=== ln link ===
- -f    force, delete original file if exist
NOTE:
maybe generate another soft link file under original directory.
This is a bug?
- -s    soft link, for directory, only allow soft link
NOTE:
default to hard link.

and hark link not guarrante file totally sync, as cache or other issue

=== basename,dirname ===

获取路径和文件名,从文件的路径全名中.

=== cygpath ===

路径转换,从cygwin路径,到windows路径.

cygpath -w filepath
== xargs ==

when you combine use FIND and XARGS, will have to using -print0 to
delimter filenames, not newline or whitespace character.

=== xargs + type ===

find -type d | xargs sudo chmod 755

找到所有文件夹,全部转换为755模式

=== first arg ===
`\ls *.265 | xargs -I{} adb push {} /data/`

== system and admin ==
=== user and group ===
==== useradd ====
default value, (NO option), this cmd, will NOT
# NOT create home dir
# NOT permission to login
# NOT create password

* -b create HOME_DIR base-dir(such as /home)
* -d create HOME_DIR, (such as /home/username)
* -m create HOME
* -M NOT create user's home
* -D defaults, directly using default values

==== adduser, addgroup ====
a interactive command. using for manual operation.

this command will 
# add user and group
# add home dir
# copy default bash config(from /etc/skel) to homedir.
# ask password
# input more information.

groupadd

== chown ==
== chmod ==
== stat ==
- -c    format
    "%A"    drwx format
    "%a"    777 format
    "%n"    filename

who

su

sudo

== passwd ==

passwd -l [username]

lock to login use password

== wall ==

broadcast message to all user who login and with terminal enabled MESG

talk

= tools =
watch   周期运行任务

ttyload 图形化显示系统负载情况

mtr www.baidu.com 比traceroute好用.

mtr是图形程序,不是CLI的.

at,在特定时间执行命令
= 命令组合 =
du -s * | sort -n |tail

列出最大的10个文件

ps aux | sort -nk +4 | tail

最耗内存的10个进程

date -d@123456

时间戳转换

按文件大小排序

ll | sort -k 5 -n

== 字符编码转换 ==
- luit
实时将其他字符编码结果的程序,进行转码.

例如使用luit+telnet访问bbs.

luit -encoding gbk telnet bbs.ustc.edu.cn

== 监控 ==

sar -u 2 400

监控CPU,每2秒一次,运行400次

- -b IO,传输速率统计,
    - tps,物理设备每秒传输数量
    - rtps,物理设备读请求次数
    - wtps
    - bread/s,读取的块数/秒
    - bwrtn/s,写入的块数/秒
    - pgpgin/s,从硬盘到内存换页千字节数
    - pgpgout/s,从内容到硬盘换也千字节数
    - fault/s,页面错误数
    - majflt/s,主错误
    - pgfree/s,空闲页面数
    - pgscand/s
    - pgsteal/s
    - %vmeff
- -d 汇集块设备活动
- -n 回报网络状态
    - 


- -f [filename] 提取文件中的报告
- -o [filename] 写入报告到文件中
- -e 设定结束汇报的时间

== time ==
进行计时的工具,注意,可能和shell提供的略有区别,因此运行时可能需要路径/usr/bin/time

- -a参数,输出到文件的时候,是append模式
- -o,输出到文件,后面带文件名采菽
- -p,输出格式为POSIX格式

== echo ==
- -e        escape code output
- -E        close escape code output

== printf ==
- "%-10s"   left justify output string

== timeout ==
run a command with a time limit

If timeout, and not set --preserver-status, it exit with status 124.
Otherwise, exit with status of COMMAND

If no signal is specified, send TERM signal upon signal.
