= vim plugin =

== plugin manager ==
vim have plugin manager.

for now, I use "plug"
=== plug ===
- parallel upgrade
- dynamic loading plugin as filetype
- fast startup time

== extention of edit ==
=== vimwiki ===
wiki system in vim

wiki format is like markdown, but better for multiple documents support.

- highlight of vimwiki format
- support jump and link in vimwiki format
- generate html

=== goyo ===
edit environment

== rainbow ==
display (),{},[] with rainbow color.

== marks ==
vim have marks function. we can mark one line local(current file) with lower
char or mark one line global(all file) with upper char.

display marked char in line number line.
- ~~ShowMarks7~~
- vim-signature

== theme ==
=== vim-airline ===
powerline style of vim

it support plenty of other plugins

=== tabline ===
display buffer name or tab name in first line in vim.

=== xterm-color-table ===
display 256 color in vim.

helper for self-defined colorscheme

== colorscheme ==
- molokai
- solarized

== serach ==
=== ack ===
fast search plugin

=== ctrlsf ===
find content in directory and display them in one buffer

== tmux integrate ==
=== vimux ===
call compile command in tmux pane.

=== vim-tmux-navigator ===
consistency switch in vim and tmux

== Mark-Karkat ==
highlight current word

== vim-indent-guides ==
display line for every "tab"

= tcomment_vim =
auto and consistency style comemnt/uncomment in different filetype

== version control system integrate ==
=== vim-fugitive ===
support git command in vim
- git blame
- git diff

=== vim-gitgutter ===
display add/delete/modify status per line in linenr.

== dynamic checking ==
Synatastic

is a powerful plugin for support checking source file. and mark it with linenr
line.
=== C/CPP ===
youcompleteme

- supertab
add this for support tab key for mutiple plugins which use TAB key.

== auto compeletion ==
=== youcompleteme ===
for C,C#,Python

compiler checking

=== snippet ===
snippet first appear in sublime-text2(??)

vim also have migrate style.
# ultisnisp
# ~~snipMate~~
# vim-snippets

== status line ==
# powerline

== GNU global/gtags ==
This is another powerful tag tools. better than ctags.

- -r        find reference of symbol
- -x        find definition of symbol

== ctags ==
NOTE:
当生成的tags文件过大的时候,可能会导致问题.目前测试,在大小为140MB的时候,就会出现问题.

`ctags -R --sort=foldcase`

though tags file is samesize, but not occur "E431 can not find tag" error

- ~~taglist~~
use tagbar which is better.

=== python ===
`ctags . -extra=+f`

== tagbar ==
=== tags-file-format ===
==== kinds ====
ctags --list-kinds={language name}

short long [fold [stl]]

fold:1 (should be folded)
stl:using for tagbar#currenttag()

:example:
p function prototype

vimwiki
h:header

==== sro ====
the scope resolution operator

==== kind2scope ====
how to map kind to scope.

a dict describing the mapping of tag kinds with one-char representation.

==== scope2kind ====

=== extend tagbar ===
* add a definition to Exuberant Ctags
simple regular expr-based parsing, but not support scopes!!

* create a specialized program

= ctrlp =
fuzzy match enigne, supoort file, buffer, tag and more.

- <C-d>         switch search full path or only current path
- <C-r>         regex mode
- <C-t>,<C-x>,<C-v>         open in new tab, split, vertical split
== ctrlp-funky ==
search function and tag in ctrlp
== ctrlp-cmatcher ==
speedy matcher eninge

= filetype =
vim have plenty plugin for every filetype.

== C/CPP ==
=== a.vim ===
jump between header file or C/CPP file

quick and easy.

== lisp ==
=== slimv ===
- rainbow
- paredit
- repl support
== log ==
=== Logcat-syntax-highlighter ===
my modified version whichi support highlight special content or line with
keyword: error,warning, buffer.

== python ==
=== vim-autopep8 ===
auto formatprgprg

=== vim-cute-python ===
display special char for python code

== javascript ==
=== vim-jsbeautify ===


= easydigraph =
== iw ==
- Fm ♀
- Ml ♂
- Eh ⌂
- TR ⌕
- SM ℠
- TM ™
- Co ©
- Rg ®
- PO ℗
- oC ℃
- oF ℉
- %0 %
- N0 №
- Om Ω
- AO Å
- co ℅
- Rx ℞
- My µ

=== Currency ===
- Cu ¤
- Pt ₧
- W= W
- Eu €
- Li ₤
- Pd £
- Ct ¢
- Ye ¥

=== Music ===
- Md ♩
- M8 ♪
- M2 ♫
- Mb ♭
- Mx ♮
- MX ♯

=== Weather ===
- SU ☼

=== Face ===
- 0u ☺
- 0U ☻

=== other ===
- <H <
- >H >
- OK ✓
- XX ✗
- cS ♠
- cH ♡
- cD ♢
- cC ♣

== math ==
- 1R Ⅰ
- 2R Ⅱ
- 3R Ⅲ

- 1r ⅰ
- 4r ⅳ
- 5r ⅴ
- 6r ⅵ

- 1c ㈠
- 2c ㈡
- 5c ㈤

- 1. 1
- 2. 2
- 9. 9

=== Fraction ===
- 12 ½
- 34 ¾
- 35 ⅗

=== arrow ===
- <= ⇐
- => ⇒
- == ⇔
- -> →
- <- ←
- <> ↔
- -! ↑
- -v -
- UD ↕

=== logic ===
- AN ∧
- OR ∨
- NO ¬

=== symbol ===
- +- ±
- -+ ∓
- -2 -
- *- ∗
- *X *
- -: ÷
- /f /
- RT √
- .P P
- Ob ∘
- Sb ∙
- 0. 0
- 02 ⊚
- 00 ∞
- FA ∀
- dP ∂
- TE ∃
- DE ∆
- NB ∇

=== Set ===
- (- ∈
- )- ∋

- CG ∾
=== Geometry ===
- PP ∥
- DG °
== error ==
- -T -
- (A (
- -V -
- -L -
- (_ (
- )_ )
- (U (
- )U )
- +Z +
- *P *
- /0 /
- 0( 0
- u221b ∛
== iW ==

== greek ==
- A* Α

a*
