= 虚拟化工具 =
mtime: 2015-01-21 20:45:54
----
== Xen ==
可以在单台设备上虚拟上百个虚拟机.

== hypervisor ==
VMM:: virtual machine monitor

virtualization, hyper-OS. inter-layer between OS and hardware.

Multi-OS could running based on one hypervisor.

NOTE:
trustzone, virtual machine based on this.

== TrustZone ==
trustzone is a security tech to protect sensitive data. extesion of ARM.
this need a system, from hardware, OS, to CA & TA.

trustzone is an OS, which running on secure world. Linux or Android is other
OS running on non-secure world, but on same CPU, same *hypervisor*.
They switch by hypervisor or call SMC, traped in *monitor mode*, and time
division multiplex access hardware.

trustzone is a fully OS, which have mutex, seamphore, and sandbox for process.

use case: DRM, payment, SIM card.

generally, its need a CA(C?? application) in non-secure world, and a
corrspoding TA(trused application) in secure world.

App -> CA --(package request)--> OS switch -> TA.

TA will execute itself, or calling other hardware accroding.

=== compare with secure processor ===
secureity tech.

compare with trustzone:
* only one processor, could not scalable on multi-core processor.
    trustzone, need implement, could running on one processor or
    multi-processor.
* less interface
    trustzone will have more applications, different TA will running on it.
* securety level. secure processor is more secure than trustzone.

== IRQ or FIQ ==
FIQ is secure interrupt. IRQ is normal interrupt.

For example, when running secure world, and monitor mode will receive a IRQ,
then save context, then switch back to non-secure world, then execute IRQ
function.

== cache and DDR ==
cache, like DDR, distinguish to secure and non-secure(normal) world.

all data from CPU to DDR will scrambling by XOR of key and address. so cannot
get real data from DDR. and when read from DDR, will decrypt it.

== open source implemention ==
- 
- Trusty OS, impled by Google.
